### Conversation with Rachel Cook
#TO/DO/WRITE Break this up into evergreen notes
> Hi Aaron. I know this is strange for me to message you, but I could use some advice. And I think you might actually be the one person that I know who might understand. I have been in a faith crisis of late and I feel I am on the brink of a decision. But I am so afraid to choose to leave because of fear of "what is hell is real and I am just being 'worldly'" and the fear of what my friend and my family and our family as a whole would say. How did you come to where you are? How did you jump that hurdle?
- Rachel Cook

Let me just start of by saying, while I am an atheist, I don't really try to convert people, I still have lots of good relationships with Christians, and I still see value in faith. I only say that to give myself some objectivity in that I really don't have any stake on whether you leave the church or not, but I am really excited to be able to share my experiences, because I think they could be helpful. 

My deconstruction started in high school because of a general lack of love for the church. I didn't really get anything out of it, and I had kinda stopped trying to be a christian after middle school. I was disconnected from my faith enough that I was able to stop being a christian, before I decided that God wasn't real. Now, I still practiced Christianity (christian school, going to church, etc) until I was 19, because I was too scared of [[my parents]] reactions. I lied for four years straight, for really no benefit, because when I did tell them it was still traumatic and I forced myself to live a lie for years. However, your situation is a little bit different I think. 

I can go more into my own story if you want, but here's my answers to your questions. The belief in hell is really drilled into your head as a Christian. I know a lot of people who have left the church who still have nightmares and the fear of hell, it's just hard to get rid of. Luckily I haven't dealt with that a ton (my fear has always been social), but I don't think that should be a deterrent and here's why. It took me two years of complete separation form the church and [[my parents]] on top of four years of not being a christian before I felt like I could look at Christianity objectively. I've described it before as climbing your way through a dense jungle canopy, while carrying years of emotional baggage. I had to fully hack away my worldview to nothing before I was able to fully let go of all of my baggage. It was then that I made the realizations about God that make me confident enough to be an atheist. (I can share the realization it just needs some explanation) Now that's just my experience and you may have much more objective view of the Christianity already, but I don't know if you'll be able to get rid of the fear of hell, or the fear or judgement, or the fear of "worldlyness" until you get to the top. 

(Also when you say worldy it just makes me think of how homophobia, evolution, abortion and lot of other non-faith issues have been used to keep people in the faith, and seperated from the world with zero biblical backing. If those are wordly things then)

(The main realization was basically that God is evil and that if he is real I'd rather burn in hell than worship him)

Also my story is just one way, I know plenty of people who left the church but still have faith, or are trying to improve church even if they don't have faith. There's also a really big community of ex-christians who lead all different kinds of spiritual lives. Athiesm is not the only route its just the route I took.

>If love to hear your story! My husband and I have been in the thick of this strange journey for over a year and I just feel jaded. I don't think I could ever tell my [[parents]] about though because it would kill them. And I do genuinely enjoy the liturgy and such of the more traditional denominations. But I sometimes just cannot handle a god that would intentionally cause confusion by allowing false claims to be made in his name. Like a young earth. I can't believe that the Bible is infallible because I cannot understand how a loving being could commit genocide so freely and unashamedly. I cannot reconcile a god who would intentionally create a being with the knowledge that they would sin (and create the tree to let them do it) and still condemn them to hell as if it were only on them. I cannot be objective. Because I genuinely believe in spiritual experiences and a truly loving God. But that truly loving God is not one that I see in a majority of the old testament, nor in most modern theology. And yet, I feel strange "cherry picking" the bible into oblivion to allow it to fit what I believe that God is. I have been fighting to stay in the church. And yet the more I fight to stay in the more I feel a push out

Yeah so I actually love your response, you've basically already come to realization that took me years, which in my words is that God is evil and that if he is real I'd rather burn in hell than worship him. I think that's a bit harsher than you'd put it but I think it is hard to look at the god described in the bible and not think he is either maliciously evil, or blatantly selfish. 

That being said, one thing I have enjoyed since leaving the church is thinking about a materialistic view of religion. If god doesn't exist, why do we have so many religion's, why do so many people have spiritual experiences, and why does religion persist as scientific explanations become more common. My personal belief is the reason that religion is so successful is because it fulfills a lot of the people's basic needs. Community, tradition, etc and it answers the three main questions of life: where did we come from, what happens when we die, and what is our purpose? The religions that are most popular today are the ones that answers those questions well and have beliefs that are designed to keep people in the have. Be in the world not of the world because if you are of the world you start believing worldly things like evolution and that people who don't believe the same thing as me aren't inherently inferior. Personally I've never had a spiritual experience but I tried so hard, and I can 100% believe that if you try hard enough and believe hard enough the brain is powerful enough and complex enough to bring about a spiritual experience. Prayer is basically [[meditation]], modern charismatic church services are the perfect environments for disassociation and panic attacks, and it's all powered by guilt, legitimate belief in a all-powerful god, and often emotional trauma. Despite all that I still think that faith can be useful. I had multiple existential crises' after leaving the church because I had no worldview and had no purpose. I think that religion can be a healthy way to avoid those experiences and live a happy and fruitful life, but the corruption of the American christian church really throws a wrench in that. I think the modern church is focused on building a counter-culture movement that is loyal to a fault. Homophobia takes sin from the realm of actions to lifestyle, creationism erodes peoples faith in science, abortion forces people to vote for one political party without even caring about the rest of its platform. I just see Christians being taken advantage of time and time again because they believe so deeply. I honestly think that the only way that the church can continue to exist is through throwing out the sanctity of the bible and cherry-picking it.  Church membership is down 40% in the past 30 years and its only gonna keep going down as Christians keep aligning themselves with hate instead of love. If you want another perspective, Katrina still believes, but we have talked extensively about problems in the church and she is starting to hate them as much as I do. I'd also recommend listening to [Rhett](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1qbna6t1bzw) and [Link](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w1AZhlyoD9s)'s spiritual deconstructions. They were way more involved in the church than me and I think you'd probably relate much more to their story than mine.

> Thanks Aaron I'll look into them! I am more afraid of my family than hell to be totally honest. I know that it would destroy them if they found out. [[my parents]] are so immersed in christianity and church culture that I often say I was raised as a semi fundamentalist. Throughout my deconstruction and partial reconstruction, I have come to the realization that hell is rarely mentioned in the bible and when it is, it isn't what we think it is. Our perception comes from dante's fictional inferno, so I don't really believe in a literal fiery hell. But that doesn't mean that conditioning and almost brainwashing isn't still there haunting my every decision. I can see god as a loving God, but not through the lense of most modern theology. I just cannot understand why the loving God that I feel like I know could allow such confusion about himself. I think I am in that point in my deconstruction where nothing seems real and yet nothing seems unreal. I told Seth recently that I feel I am a giant box of puzzle pieces, but the box is full of like 20 puzzles and I have to find the right pieces for the right puzzle, without knowing which puzzle is the right one. I don't think I am at the point of hating god or feeling he is sadistic (except the calvinist god. He's an asshole). But I do feel hatred toward the church. For so many reasons.

LOL funnily enough I wrote a paper on calvinism vs [[Charismaticism]] and its when I came to the realization that there was more evidence for [[Calvinism]] that I first like said to myself I wasn't a christian. The calvinist god is definitely the most assholish. Honestly the reason I haven't talked about the family issue at all is that I have zero advice. My relationship with my [[parents]] is rocky at best and I do think that I broke my dad a little bit when I told him. It was honestly the most hateful I had ever seen him, but I know that a lot of it is because of grief I don't think he's ever been able to work through from his dad's death. He really needs therapy... I totally get your empathy for your parents and I guess at a certain point you can't teach an old dog new tricks. It's kind of hard for me because I know I will never feel accepted by my [[parents]] until they stop believing I'm going to hell, but I'm still working on that. I also believe that Katrina and I have some level of religious trauma. I haven't been able to dig into it with a psychologist but I think especially charismatic church's are prone to it. It can be really hard to work through those emotions on your own and while still in the church. The confusion is totally relatable, Katrina talks about how slow she has to work through issues and I just think its because she's having to sift throw mountains of puzzle pieces. I just tipped over the box of pieces and then chose the smallest puzzle.
