### Vergesson Sanatorium

During the war between the [[Dwendalian Empire]] and the Julous Dominion, a vast prison known as the Archevault was made as a jail for prisoners of war. After the war, the Archevault was repurposed by the [[Cerberus Assembly]] as the largest imperial sanatorium and hospital. Named after Lord Symon Vergesson, the late assembly member who founded it, the massive mansion is surrounded by vast gardens and filled with beautiful artwork designed to please the primarily wealthy patients.

The sanatorium's patients are treated for physical and mental ailments severe enough to require alchemical, magical, or experimental therapy. Helmed by Gertrude Wagner, the Sanatorium Director, the faculty is monitored by the Crown. The facility offers treatment to those who require assistance and can pay handsomely, but beneath the pleasant mansion lies a torturous oubliette for political prisoners.

[](https://media.dndbeyond.com/compendium-images/egtw/yDOyqyOocErRgYJK/03-12.png)

Vergesson Sanatorium

While the reputation of the Vergesson Sanatorium is sterling, it hides dark secrets. The original purpose of the Archevault was never fully discarded, and a number of vocal critics of the Crown have disappeared from the streets of [[Rexxentrum]]. Deep beneath the floors of the estate lie hidden chambers and cells that house enemies of the king, foreign spies, and traitors to the Crown privately sentenced by Prime Arbiter [[Sydnock Truscan]]. There, they are subjected to experiments conducted in secret under the supervision of Master [[Trent Ikithon]] of the [[Cerberus Assembly]]. A tower on the northern outskirts of the grounds acts as Trent's summer home, where he houses and trains the prospective members of his Volstruckers, an elite group of spies and assassins who use magic to do the assembly's dirty work.

Most who adventure in the Vergesson Sanatorium are trying to free a prisoner. Just finding a captive hidden in the massive complex is a challenge, but if the characters become imprisoned in the Archevault themselves, they must survive and form a plan to escape.

_**Killing Regin (Mid Level).**_ Regin Kavla (lawful evil, female, human [spy](https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/spy)), a former spy for [[the Myriad]], is trapped in the bowels of the Vergesson Sanatorium. Worried that she might share important secrets, the Myriad hires the characters to get into the prison, capture Regin, and delivered her to them, offering a hefty sum or some other reward — whatever it takes to get the job done. As the characters search for Regin, they uncover the hospital's dark secrets and must decide what to do with this disturbing information.

_**Patient Zero (High Level).**_ One of the most trusted allies of Prime Arbiter [[Sydnock Truscan]], Doctor Reynold Brueska, has been privately developing an arcane disease to be used in the war against the [[Kryn Dynasty]], with the sanatorium's patients as his test subjects. When all contact with the sanatorium ceases, the Prime Arbiter hires the characters to investigate the premises and uncover the doctor, his work, and the events that transpired. The characters discover that a majority of the denizens of the Vergesson Sanatorium have been mutated and driven mad by the disease. The adventurers must fight their way through the horror-filled halls while trying to avoid contamination, or discover a cure before the disease completely corrupts them.