### Mythburrow

In the farthest reaches of the northeast Greying Wildlands, tucked low near the base of the Flotket Alps, the ominous, icicle-wreathed mouth of a deep mountain cavern plunges into the heart of the rocky range. The locals who call this place Mythburrow tell stories of a monstrous, ancient being that claims dominion over the surrounding lands. Tales of a bellowing roar that shakes the valley have been told for centuries, and some even claim to have seen the frightful wingspan of the immense white-scaled dragon that calls Mythburrow home. While many joke about the siren call of a dragon's hoard, few have the mettle to venture into this cavern in search of wealth and glory — and those who did enter the cave never returned.

Deep within the Mythburrow, something old and terrible shifts in seclusion, plotting its next hunt in the lands above.

_**Gelidon (High Level).**_ All trade and communication from Palebank Village (described below) halts suddenly and without warning. When the characters are sent to investigate, they find the entire area transformed into a frozen nightmare, the village leveled and the remaining corpses locked within jagged ice. Uthodurnian scouts report sightings of the long-dormant [ancient white dragon](https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/ancient-white-dragon) Gelidon returning to its lair in Mythburrow.

The Diarchy of Uthodurn puts out the call to all monster hunters and heroes, setting a handsome bounty on the head of Gelidon. The characters must now clamber down the twisting tunnels of the Mythburrow and destroy the powerful wyrm before their competition can claim the gold and glory.