### Ruins of [[Molaesmyr]]

Just north of the Boreal Omen River, toward the center of the warped [[Savalirwood]] forest, looms the ravaged elven city of [[Molaesmyr]]. Once a beautiful city filled with erudite scholars and designed to blend in with the towering trees by masterful elven architects, the metropolis now lies abandoned. The canopy of trees above the ruins is thick enough to block most of the sun, and massive, twisting bramble vines choke the streets and rooftops, spreading into the surrounding woods like veins from a corrupted heart. Crumbling spires lean against trees swollen with disease, halls of learning are smothered by toxic fungus and moss, and a perpetual heavy fog obscures the dangers that lurk in unseen alcoves. All manner of terrible fey creatures now call this city home. The rest of the woods are filled with natural forest denizens mutated by errant magics as well as many elves who were caught in the horrifying catastrophe and who now stalk the shadows as terrible monstrosities, mockeries of their former selves.

The ruins are considered the source of the corrupt magics that still spread throughout the [[Savalirwood]], twisting its inhabitants and keeping the elves of [[Molaesmyr]] from their home for over two hundred and fifty years. Many factions throughout the [[Greying Wildlands]] have their eyes on the ancient city, eager to uncover its secrets and its treasures. Expeditions from [[Uthodurn]] into the blighted city delve beyond the outer edges, seeking the central tower of Caes Mosor and the labyrinth beneath, where it is believed that the dark magic was unleashed. The Uthodurnian expeditions hope to uncover relics and clues that could be the key to reversing this desolation, but these dungeoneers now contend with not only the hungry monsters, but also hired mercenaries and greedy thieves from [[Shadycreek Run]] who seek to steal these same secrets for profit. The blood of both factions has been spilled in the streets of Molaesmyr, and the dark spirits of the city seem to relish the violence.

The ruins of [[Molaesmyr]] can tempt the characters into their dangers with the promise of forgotten treasures and magic.

_**Cackles in the Dark (Low Level)**_. Auntie Rottongue, Nanny Filthtouch, and Granny Pustreat are a coven of [green hags](https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/green-hag) living in the labyrinth beneath the ruins of [[Molaesmyr]]. The hags send their minions to steal children from [[Shadycreek Run]], then use them as test subjects for new, dark rituals. The minions are supposed to take children who will not be missed, but when they kidnap a Mardoon child, the characters are hired to delve into the ruins and recover the victim while facing the hags' corrupted fey minions.