### The Marrow War

It wasn’t long before the expanding borders of the [[Dwendalian Empire]] began to push up against the growing [[Julous Dominion]]. An agreement was brokered to avoid conflict as long as favorable trade could be established and maintained. Even so, the resource-rich center of [[Western Wynandir]] was split between the two states, with both factions eager to discover the other’s weaknesses. Rumors of the discovery of a massive platinum mine within the [[Julous Dominion]] further increased the [[Dwendalian Empire|empire]]’s desire to conquer their neighbor.

At this time, religious leaders throughout the [[Dwendalian Empire]] rebelled against the emperor’s religious restrictions. After his coronation, Emperor Manfried Dwendal enacted laws limiting worship and prayer to subjects concerning the power, profit, and expansion of the [[Dwendalian Empire|empire]]. In the year 544 PD, internal strife and insurgent action turned bloody when the zealous leaders of varying faiths attempted, and failed, to usurp the throne for their council. An angered Emperor Manfried Dwendal had the rebellious priests executed—an event that came to be known as the Admonition.

The emperor spoke of abolishing all worship within his boundaries. This caused further uproar among the populace, but then Emperor Manfried’s spies discovered that the seeds of the uprising had been sown by Julous interests. Publicly exposing the plot, the emperor outlawed only select faiths that he felt threatened civilized life. He redirected much of the people’s fury by also proclaiming the [[Julous Dominion]] an enemy of the [[Dwendalian Empire|empire]] later that year and declaring war on the neighboring nation.

Meanwhile, the [[Julous Dominion]] was dealing with the refusal of the outlying villages near [[Kamordah]] to accept their rule in this time of brewing hostility. They eventually drove the independent villagers back into the [[Cyrios Mountains]], just in time to hear the horns of war blaring from the [[Dwendalian Empire|empire]] to the north. The violent conflict known as the Marrow War lasted over sixteen months and cost the lives of many soldiers and innocents on both sides of the [[Marrow Valley]].

The [[Julous Dominion]] lacked the unified military force of the [[Dwendalian Empire|empire]]. When a major military push left the capital city of [[Zadash]] occupied by the [[Dwendalian Empire|empire]], Baron Inock Julous and Baroness Tessandra Julous met with Emperor Manfried to negotiate a peace. During this meeting, the baron and baroness were unceremoniously executed. Their bodies were displayed publicly along with the narrative that they had attempted an assassination on the emperor during the peace talks. Disheartened and bereft of leadership, the [[Julous Dominion]] immediately came to an end, as did the war.

To prove his benevolence to the people of the newly conquered [[Julous Dominion]], and to help avoid future uprisings, Emperor Manfried declared that all citizens of the dominion would keep their lands and homesteads. No soldiers would stand trial or be punished for their previous allegiance. Life would continue as it had, except for the implementation of imperial taxes, laws, and oversight across the valley under the new emperor. Outlawed religious iconography was destroyed, crops and goods were redistributed according to the needs of the [[Dwendalian Empire|empire]], and life slowly returned to normal for the Zemnian people.