[[Wildemount]] is a vast and war-torn continent where many legends of [[Exandria]] are forged, but it is just one of many remarkable lands across this vibrant world. Many other regions have been referenced throughout this book, including the majestic realm of [[Marquet]] and the neighboring continent of [[Tal'Dorei]], while others still remain undiscovered. This section outlines known regions of [[Exandria]] beyond the continent of [[Wildemount]].

### Tal'Dorei

The continent of [[Tal'Dorei]] lies west of [[Wildemount]], nearly connected by a land bridge that stands sundered by the Shearing Channel. The independent city-state of Whitestone lords over the northeastern reaches of [[Tal'Dorei]] from deep within the chilled woods of the Parchwood Timberland. Farther west, the endless, green fields and forests of the Dividing Plains form a landscape of farmland, rivers, and untamed wilderness.

To the north, the Cliffkeep Mountains shelter hidden valleys, swift and deadly predators, and the mighty dwarven stronghold city of Kraghammer, beneath which lie mines and caverns that connect to the [[Underdark]]. To the south of the Dividing Plains, travelers might find themselves traversing the rocky spires of the Stormcrest Mountains or attempting to navigate the vast forest known as the Verdant Expanse, home to the beautiful elven city of Syngorn. Beyond the Verdant Expanse lies the southernmost peninsula of [[Tal'Dorei]], a land enveloped by the volatile Rifenmist Jungle.

Along the western shore of [[Tal'Dorei]] stands the capital city of Emon, a glorious metropolis and the political nexus of the continent. Within Emon, the governing oligarchy known as the Council of [[Tal'Dorei]] maintains law and order across the many territories of the republic, partnering with the governing bodies of Kraghammer, Syngorn, and Whitestone to help maintain the safety and wellbeing of all who call this land their home.

### Marquet

Beyond the winds and waves to the far southwest of [[Wildemount]], across the Lucidian Ocean and the Ozmit Sea, one can find the chain of islands called the Hespet Archipelago, and, farther still, the shores of the continent of [[Marquet]]. The pebble beaches of the Bay of Gifts greet weary travelers, where the port city of Shammel offers gambling and extravagance to the traders who travel from afar.

Beyond the port lie the rocky Aggrad Mountains, which spread for hundreds of miles, filled with deep chasms and endless caves housing predators lying in wait. The mountains eventually give way to the immense Marquesian Desert, whose scorching sands stretch from horizon to horizon. The overwhelming heat, deadly sandstorms, and ravenous denizens of the dunes threaten any caravan that attempts to cross these arid lands in search of any oasis of civilization.

Near the center of this harsh desert, surrounded by a sprawling network of small villages, is the grand city of Ank'Harel, the center of culture, history, and power for [[Marquet]]. Ruled by the mysteriously undying J'mon Sa Ord, the streets of Ank'Harel are safe and rich with music and culture, a sharp contrast to the desolate lands that surround this metropolis. The Hands of Ord, the internal guard of the city, are guardians of the nearby villages and townships, but they can only reach so far. Farther south, the blistering sands give way to scrubland and marshes tangled with the rugged mountains that surround the smoking Suuthan Volcano and the dangerous clans that worship it.

The deserts of [[Marquet]] echo a once lush landscape that housed a prominent civilization during the [[Age of Arcanum]], one that ended in terrible conflict between warring nations during the early years of [[the Calamity]]. The battles that raged here reduced the verdant lands to sand and ash, burying a multitude of secrets that factions across [[Exandria]] are willing to go to any lengths to claim.

### Issylra

Far northwest of [[Wildemount]], beyond [[Tal'Dorei]] and across the freezing waters of the [[Frigid Depths]] and the Ozmit Sea, lies the oldest continent in known Exandrian history. [[Issylra]] is thought to be the land where all civilization once emerged and spread in the time of [[the Founding]], making it the focal point of historical study and the epicenter of many faiths. The territory known as Othanzia encompasses a majority of the continent's developed regions, keeping most domains protected and governed by the might of the theocracy of Vasselheim.

Nestled among eastern taiga forests of the Vasper Timberland, the city of Vasselheim is the oldest known seed of civilization and religion, and the only city to withstand every catastrophe that has rocked [[Exandria]] since the gods brought life to the world. Beyond the walls of Vasselheim lie chilly and savage wilds formed by the ancient and magically potent nature of the area. Small camps, communities, and townships are scattered across the landscape, and the denizens of Othanzia are a tough, hardened people who persist in this harsh land through duty, faith, or the need to protect their communities. Beyond the Othanzian region, there are a handful of lesser republics, but the ferocious creatures that stalk the jagged Utesspire Mountains prevent Othanzia from expanding too far beyond its borders.

### Shattered Teeth

Should one wish to brave the perilous waters far south of [[Wildemount]], past the dangerous, perpetual fog bank called the Fool's Curtain, they might discover themselves adrift among a cluster of forty-three islands known as the [[Shattered Teeth]].

Varying in size from small, mile-wide reef-toppers to large islands like Ruukva that hold entire cities, this archipelago is largely governed by two contentious societies. The Ossended Host is a culture of fishing folk dedicated to isolationism and enlightenment through the worship of dreams and nightmares. The Wanderman [[Cerberus Assembly|Assembly]], a centuries-old trade company from the [[Menagerie Coast]] that formed after its members were stranded across the [[Shattered Teeth]] by a hurricane, is a capitalistic society that barely conceals its ruthlessness under the banner of honor and brotherhood. Tension between these societies has led to bloodshed in recent years, with each group convinced that the other is bent on the destruction of its way of life.