### Lotusden Greenwood

The dark, verdant forest of the Lotusden Greenwood envelops the southern end of [[Eastern Wynandir]] in eerie mists, murderous trolls, and hungry trees. Incredibly lush and filled with life compared to the barren and desolate wastes to the north, this unchecked forest is home to many creatures and beasts, some of whom have grown to a nightmarish size because of the residual power of the long-buried druidic fane that empowers and protects the Greenwood.

Giant predators and dire monstrosities stalk the undergrowth, while vicious, carnivorous plants patiently await their next meal. Cold nights bring icy mists to the wood, drawing the spirits of those claimed by the Lotusden out into the moonlight to siphon the warmth from the living. The [[Kryn Dynasty]] considers exploiting the mysterious and deadly forest to be an unnecessary risk, so the Lotusden Greenwood remains one of the few places on this side of the [[Penumbra Range]] untouched by Kryn interests.

No one knows the source of the wild curses that plague the Lotusden, but there are a number of stories that speak of whole portions of the forest suddenly coming to life. The trees uproot themselves and march as one, going berserk and assaulting any they perceive as outsiders—until mysteriously, and without warning, they take root again and return to their docile, unmoving state. While academics maintain that there is no definitive proof of this behavior, some explorers have noticed the shape of the forest's edges changing dramatically, sometimes overnight.

The characters might enter the forest to retrieve someone who is lost or to escape Kryn forces in pursuit. Any plant in Lotusden Greenwood could be a carnivorous monster waiting to attack.

_**Mother's Milk (Mid Level).**_ Someone or something has been kidnapping the infants and children of [[Charis]]. A terrible evil lurks at the heart of the matter: an unholy coven of hags, led by a [night hag](https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/night-hag) of prodigious influence and power. The hag preside over a dark corner of the Greenwood, where they lair beneath the roots of a gargantuan tree. Here, the nightmarish coven and its minions manufacture the slow doom of the Greenwood itself as they siphon the lifeblood of the [[Charis]] children into a loathsome artifact known as the Gloom Lathe.