- blaster_69 — Today at 7:00 PM Anyone have any helpful tips for concentration/focus with [[depression]]? My job is pretty mentally intensive but I can't even focus for more than a few minutes at a time. And when I inevitably don't understand something, I have been getting extremely frustrated and just spiral more. I hate this.
	- My lack of attention is from [[ADHD]] not [[depression]] so I'm not sure how much this will help, but I have a few things I've used. 
		1. Interact with what you are trying to understand in more than one way. If you are reading: write notes/highlight, or have it read aloud while you read (I use an extension called read-aloud). If you are doing something, talk out loud what you are doing and how, in programming its called rubber duck debugging, but it can help you stay involved and notice problems. 
		2. Eliminated distractions and make the only thing you do in your workspace work. If you work at an office this is easy, but if you work from home it can be as much as moving your monitor to the other side of you desk after work or working in one room and doing leisure in the other.
		3. Be willing to give yourself breaks, but try to do activities that will rest your brain instead of stimulate it. I.E go for a walk  or meditate instead of looking at social media for 20 mins.
		4. If it's possible reach out to your doctor to see if medication would help. I sought out medication in preparation for my job and it has helped me so much to do what I need to do and setup better habits.
		5. Watch some of Dr. K's videos on [[mindfullness]] and [[meditation]]. It's okay to get frustrated and upset, but those should help you spiral less 
