4/22/20 1:57am  
My understanding of humans and their interactions comes mainly from observation and extensive analysis which means that if I am put into a situation that I have not dealt with before I have very little ability to adapt, unless the situation can be broken down into smaller little interaction nuggets which I have dealt with before.  
3/28/20 1:17am  
Couple weeks into coronavirus quarantine. The loneliness is hitting hard, but I don't know if this is really because of the quarantine. I feel like I'm on the edge of the depression from last semester. I feel like the progress I've made is slowly slipping away. I feel like I'm becoming the person I was a few months ago, the one that was just okay, not the one that is improving. The worst part is I don't know how to stop it. I don't really know what I need to do to feel better. Maybe being creative will help, I can certainly try.  
  
3/13/20 12:37am  
The despair feels like it's hitting tonight. Life was going great, but it feels like I just got to a big cliff on the way up the mountain. I think I'll get up this cliff, I know I'll get up this cliff, but I dont know how long it will take, I don't know how hard it will be, and I don't know how much pain it will cause me. Coronavirus is sweeping the nation, not actually sweeping, just the fear mainly, and man is it fucking with stuff. I thought that a whole lot of other things would get in my way, but I never thought it would be a fucking virus. It's not so bad yet, my mental health, but I can feel it getting worse, regressing back to what it was. I'm not sure if I'll be able to change things, now that I'm back in my old situation, but I hope I can. I hope you'll get some happy posts sometime journal, but I don't know when.  
3/12/20 1:30am  
I've just watched a video that resonated so deeply with me, that desperately want to find someone who can understand it. Unfortunately I feel it is so nice, and requires so much context to understand that any attempt to reach out and find a mutual audience for this video wouldn result in me being seen as an outcast.  
I definitely feel like I am still figuring my life out, my brain out, my soul (? maybe conscious) out. I don't feel metally stable, every day I could slip back into depression, or bad habits. I have so many things that I want to do, but I feel like the world is always getting in my way. The better times get, the more I regret the past times that could've been better. Hopefully one day I get past that. It's interesting that I don't currently long for any past time. I feel like I'm at the peak of my life and the lowest point of my life at the same time, which means that I am currently on the slog up the hill to my peak, and the pain now is just the hard work to get there. Damn, that's the best thing to come out of these journal entries. I just shed a tear.  
I think mentally unhealthy people are easier to get into deep conversations with. Or maybe just people who are still working on their mental state.  
  
3/7/20 10:30pm  
It's okay to regret. Its okay to be sad. It's to improve yourself it's okay to get better. Even though it hurts. Even though every good time just makes all the bad times seem worse. Even though every bad time feels like it will last forever. Everybody has experiences that they regret. Everybody has times in their life that weren't as good. Everybody takes on life in a different way.  
  
2/6/20 11:45pm  
I am feeling quite introspective tonight. I watched a youtuber who I haven't watched in a while. I expected his videos to make me feel sad and purposeless, but they made reavaluate my current spot in life. He struggled with living reactionarily, but reoriented his life to focus on what he valued. That brings the question, what do I value.  
That is a very hard question for me, as I do not have a solid purpose for living. The best I can think of is bringing happiness to myself and others, but that still feels like it's lacking something important, I just can't place my finger on it.  
What is the purpose of my life?  
Recently I have been living my life in a reactionary way. Minecraft provided me with joy and dopamine so I started playing it again, but what is playing advancing? It does improve my mood often and provide me with some temporary purpose, but this is not lasting. I am spending quality time with Kire, which is important to do. He is my best friend and I think I am in some way improving his life. It is also detrimental to my schoolwork, but that has not proven serious as of yet. Really it is general apathy and laziness that hold the most danger for my school work  
I've decided to start writing this diary. Perhaps it will help me find something, or just put something into words, or maybe I'll wake up tommorow and be to apathetic to continue on the goals I set tonight. I uninstalled Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, and Reddit. Not because they were really detrimental to my life, but because they allowed and escape that I was taking part in much to regularly. I hope to replace the time I spent on them with reading, but we'll see if that lasts. The bigger demon is YouTube, but I don't have the desire to cut it out. So much of what I watch is positive, it doesn't feel like the endless pit that the others are, even though it is. I might try and limit it but I don't know how I'd do that.  
Hopefully I'll spend this extra time doing things that I value, I just have to remember what those things are.