### Ebonglass Massif

The sharp obsidian peaks of the Ebonglass Massif spell doom to those who would attempt to tame them, but many still try. This jagged range of lustrous volcanic rock divides northeastern [[Blightshore]] into two large peninsulas: [[Far Hharom]] to the north, and the [[Tooth of Zehir]] to the east. Expeditions to the Ebonglass Massif from the nations of Western Wynandir and beyond have been fraught with peril, and the craggy mountains are considered all but impassable by cautious outlanders, curious prospectors, and others who would explore their mysteries.

Like many places in the Miskath Strand, the Massif is haunted by a dark past. Historians have unearthed tales of ancient dwarven strongholds that were utterly destroyed by the upheaval during [[the Calamity]]. Now, the only known denizens of the Ebonglass Massif are the birds of prey that scour its peaks for sustenance and a maniacal clan of gray-scaled kobolds that employs simple technology—hooks, cables, and gliders—to traverse the Massif's treacherous terrain.

The kobolds of the Massif live in a subterranean sprawl on the southwestern edge of the Ebonglass foothills. Known as the Fangs of the Worm, they are led by a kobold queen whose eldritch magic is sustained by the clan's central religious totem—a powerful artifact from ancient [[Eiselcross]], which has no doubt played a large part in the wayward sect's rapid evolution and questionable sanity. The kobolds of the Fangs of the Worm gather around this massive cylinder of metal and light to pay fealty to their queen and honor the visions she receives from beyond. This columnar artifact is actually a cryogenic containment unit that houses and preserves a fetid tissue sample from the festering body of [[Quajath, the Undermaw]], and what the kobolds of the Ebonglass Massif mistake for divine visions are actually the abhorrent murmurs of Quajath, who telepathically guides the clan's erratic actions.

The dwarves of the Ebonglass Massif persist as incorporeal caretakers in their hidden subterranean halls, where they carve the volcanic glass with psionic powers like an artist moves paint on canvas. These forlorn specters preside over an empire of impeccable craft and staggering natural wealth, but their physical tombs have no entrances from the outside world, much to the chagrin of would-be burglars.

Adventurers who find themselves near the peaks of the Ebonglass Massif have strayed very far indeed from the political turmoil of [[Wildemount]]. The nigh impassable mountains hide strange creatures and even stranger secrets.

_**Lost Xagonstar (Low Level).**_ The adventurers travel to Ebonglass Massif by airship to join a well-funded archaeological expedition mounted by Duurek Kronst, a wealthy dwarf who is determined to find the dwarven stronghold of Xagonstar, lost and buried since [[the Calamity]]. An unnatural storm sweeping across [[Blightshore]] causes the airship to crash, but the characters survive. Once they reach the dig site, they see that great progress has already been made. The first great hall of Xagonstar has been discovered! Unfortunately, the archaeologists are missing and the site has been abandoned. Were the diggers captured by the Fang of the Worm or carried off by a hungry [gloomstalker](https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/[[gloomstalker]]) (as described in [chapter 7](https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/egtw/[[wildemount]]-bestiary#[[Gloomstalker]] "chapter 7")), or did something slip out of Xagonstar to devour them?