### Miskath Pit

This geographical anomaly is an arcane sinkhole of unknown depth and origin. Its oblong opening measures roughly 120 feet in diameter and plunges endlessly into the planet's surface. Few survivors have returned from the pit's staggering subterranean expanse, and those who have appear maddened and deranged with fear. Whatever precipitated the advent of the pit is ultimately inconsequential compared to the sheer devastation it causes in the surrounding [[Blightshore]] wilds.

Despite its astounding depth, the Miskath Pit's twisting tunnels are far from lightless. A melange of psychedelic sights and sounds are found throughout its bizarre subterranean landscapes, where strange, sporadic lights can be just as terrifying as the darkness. The cloying presence of something ancient and evil is unmistakable to anyone who seeks firsthand to understand the pit's harrowing phenomena. This area is an appalling fusion of the Underdark and the alien quasi-geometries of the Far Realm.

Travelers have recently reported sightings of a new variety of horrific aberrations in the vicinity of the Miskath Pit. Known as [[core spawn]], these creatures embody the chaotic nature of [[Blightshore]] itself with every tenebrous fiber of their eldritch being. Hordes of lesser [[core spawn]] are presided over by [[core spawn]] seers—corrupted magic users whose loathsome agendas are one of [[Blightshore]]'s greatest (and most troubling) mysteries. See [chapter 7](https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/egtw/[[wildemount]]-bestiary#CoreSpawn "chapter 7") for more information about core spawn.

Despite its unique perils, the Miskath Pit is a darkly alluring place that seems to beckon travelers with a proclivity for eldritch magic or a taste for trouble. The bizarre arcane phenomena that plague the Miskath Pit are also responsible for an array of enchanted minerals and precious elements. Profiteers from [[Rotthold]] and beyond risk madness, and even death, in an attempt to mine the pit's supernatural resources.