### Rotthold

**Population:** 8,800 (30% [[humans]], 15% [[Dark Elves]], 15% goblins, 15% [[tieflings]], 5% [[hollow ones]], 20% other races)

**Government:** Rotthold has no official governing body but is held together by a consortium of local guild leaders, merchants, and veteran adventurers who meet in secret once a week to discuss current affairs, shared interests, and potential threats.

**Defense:** The small but precious amount of sanctuary Rotthold provides from the [[Blightshore]] wastes is upheld by a militia of battle-hardened locals and dutifully concerned citizens. Other fortune-seekers often join this militia simply for the opportunities and information the alliance provides.

**Commerce:** Almost anything can be bought or sold in Rotthold, where the merchants are just as unscrupulous as in the surrounding [[Blightshore]] wilderness. Rotthold is the center of black market trade in [[Eastern Wynandir]], and perhaps in all of [[Wildemount]].

**Organizations:** In addition to the city's handful of merchants and thieves' guilds, a confederacy of agents representing the mercantile interests of [[the Myriad]] and [[the Revelry]] operate in public throughout Rotthold, while a covert sect of the [[Cerberus Assembly]] carries out their own clandestine business.

Some say this lawless harbor city is as dangerous as the arcane wilds of [[Blightshore]] that surround it. But whether or not visitors enjoy its chaotic disposition, Rotthold is an unmistakable center of travel and commerce in eastern [[Wildemount]]. The decayed stone dwellings and wooden tenements that line Rotthold's ramshackle streets are enveloped by a luminous, rust-colored moss that bathes the city's evenings in a sick crimson glow. Many outlanders view this crime-ridden settlement as little more than a collection of degenerate safe houses and slums, while others see it as a raw jewel—full of potential—that shines bright among the dusky shadows of the poisoned east.

Multiple factions operate in and around Rotthold, including covert agents of the [[Cerberus Assembly]] and a tenuous coalition between members of [[the Myriad]] and [[the Revelry]]. While the Plank King's remote forces maintain the southern waterways and oversee the export of [[Blightshore]]'s esoteric resources, [[The Myriad|Myriad]] spies monitor and manipulate the exchange of goods and services inside the city limits, and the fragile alliance between these two is the closest thing this unruly corner of the [[Miskath Strand]] has to a governing body.

The open trade of illicit goods and services is the lifeblood of Rotthold's mossy streets. All manner of pleasures are available for those willing enough to pay the price, which can be quite steep. Many of Rotthold's denizens owe [[the Myriad]] one favor or another, and the constant exchange of these debts keeps the city full of new faces. Crime is a way of life in Rotthold, where the [[Dwendalian Empire]] and [[Kryn Dynasty]] have no sway over its opportunistic, unethical inhabitants.

No walls protect Rotthold from the surrounding [[Blightshore]] wastes, but eleven watchtowers serve as a line of defense. The city is roughly divided into four quarters: North Rotthold, East Rotthold, Dockside, and Cairn Hill. North Rotthold houses the city's most impoverished denizens, who encounter the [[Miskath Strand]]'s impinging monstrous wildlife on a regular basis. Most of the city's trade is conducted in East Rotthold, where a bazaar known as the Red Market takes up a majority of the quarter. On the south side of the city, Dockside is the purview of [[the Revelry]] and houses Rotthold's most affluent citizens, who no doubt believe they are safest when located as far away from [[Blightshore]]'s savage interior as possible. On the west end of the city, the quarter known as Cairn Hill rests above a mysterious lattice of pre-Calamity catacombs. Here in Rotthold's graveyard, furtive agents meet in cemeteries to carry out their agendas.

The moss-lit streets of Rotthold are ripe with adventure for characters with a taste for small-city mystery or black market mayhem.

_**Rough Times in Rotthold (Low Level).**_ A moment of respite goes south in one of North Rotthold's taverns, where the characters—along with the proprietors and other patrons—become targets of an impromptu shakedown by an upstart gang with ties to a prominent thieves' guild. Successfully thwarting the [thugs](https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/thug) could very well earn the characters the ire (or the respect) of the guild, which operates under the clandestine guidance of a mysterious cabal of enlightened [nothics](https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/nothic).

_**The Cairn Hill Horror (Mid Level).**_ A serial killer [cultist](https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/cultist) stalks the streets of western Rotthold from his catacomb lair beneath Cairn Hill, where the viscera of a hundred victims have been offered to summon his otherworldly patron: a [glabrezu](https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/glabrezu) named Vrath. This demon is a cruel, immortal deceiver that promises its [acolytes](https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/acolyte) unrivaled power in the wake of its awful arrival—and only the characters can stop it.

_**The Krakenwhacker (High Level).**_ Captain Veluna Samarshan of the galley _Krakenwhacker_ has decided to retire in Rotthold. Having heard about the adventurers' exploits, she offers to sell the _Krakenwhacker_ to them for one gold piece, though they'll need to find their own crew. The ship is in excellent condition and has a magical figurehead carved in the likeness of [[Bahamut]] that grants the vessel immunity to fire, lightning, and thunder damage. The ship is the envy of several other [[The Revelry|Revelry]] captains, and the characters might have to fend off their advances to keep it. Captain Samarshan also warns them about an [adult bronze dragon](https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/adult-bronze-dragon) named Walarkus. Corrupted by the magic of [[Blightshore]], this once-noble dragon has become a coastal menace consumed by greed. It would like nothing more than to add the ship's magical figurehead to its undersea trove.

Chapter 5 of the [Dungeon Master's Guide](https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/dmg "Dungeon Master's Guide") has rules and statistics for ships, as well as information about hiring a crew and making ship repairs.