### [[Felderwin]] Tillage

The Tillage, as it's called by locals, is the expanse of fertile farmland surrounding [[Felderwin]], west of the [[Ashkeeper Peaks]]. This sprawling network of farms cultivates most of the empire's crops and livestock used and consumed across Western Wynandir. Crops are cultivated and harvested in the Tillage, while most business and shipping is handled within [[Felderwin]] itself. Farming families frequently travel between their acreage and the settlement of [[Felderwin]] to sell their goods and distribute their tithes to the empire.

While most conflicts throughout these rural homesteads involve disputes over land, the open and remote nature of the farms makes them easy targets for burglary and theft. Stories of such dangers continue to grow as financial strife in the empire pushes working folk to extremes. Increasing mistrust of outsiders and even some neighbors has led to some families becoming quite hostile. For the most party, however, there are few communities known to be as welcoming and hospitable as those of the [[Felderwin]] Tillage.

A stealth unit of Kryn warriors recently sneaked into the [[Marrow Valley]] from below the earth and set fire to a number of fields before being repelled. With large plots in ashes, many farming families are trying to rebuild, while the leaders of [[Felderwin]] are seeking ways to better defend their populace.

The characters could aid or stop Kryn raids on [[Felderwin]] Tillage, or defend the farms against burglars and monsters.

_**Kryn Spy (Low Level).**_ The characters are hired by a farming family in the Tillage to get to the bottom of recent arsons that burned crops in [[Felderwin]] Tillage. The culprit behind the fires is difficult to find because they are a [doppelganger](https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/doppelganger) working for the Kryn, masquerading as multiple absent members of the community. Moreover, once the characters ask too many questions, the doppelganger begins hunting them as well.

_**A Friend in Need (Mid Level).**_ Stumbling on a secret gathering of [cultists](https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/cultist) of Tiamat preparing to sacrifice a woman to their evil goddess, the adventurers must stop the ritual and free the captive, who aids them in the battle. She introduces herself as Calianna, a half-elf sorcerer with a draconic lineage that covers half of her body in black scales. She breathlessly describes this terrible cabal, known as the Cult of [[the Caustic Heart]] (see [chapter 2](https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/egtw/factions-and-societies#sidebarCultsDubiousWorshipFromTheShadows "chapter 2")), and requests the characters' aid in vanquishing it once and for all.