#### Entity Data

#

#### Notes

- [[Louie]]has been living in [[Blackvale]] since he was twelve and he doesn't really remember anything before that. His [[parents]]were plane-hoppers and they left him in the city with nothing but a spellbook and a name. He begged a little, got taken in by an orphanage, and then eventually ran away and joined the [[Rothstar]] family when he was about sixteen. Since then he's been working for them as a scout and messenger but has been improving his skills in lock-picking. He gained favor with the head of the family by lucking upon some of the mayor's important documents. This gave the [[Rothstar]]'s a much stronger hold over the mayor and the city, and catapulted Louie into a favored position in the family. Unfortunately, many did not appreciate his meteoric rise and grew to resent him.  Louie has always been different. Every few months the orphanage would get a new worker and they would wake him up in the middle of the night because he wasn't breathing. He was, they just couldn't tell. He would also barely bleed when he got cuts and didn't develop scabs. This meant that he had more scars than the average person. Sometimes Louie would forget to blink, or breathe, or move. He had to learn how to act human and became pretty good at it. A couple of months ago Louie was in the bar getting drunk with his friends when he saw a beautiful elven girl. He had never done this before but he decided to go talk to her. All his friends had been with women why shouldn't he. Why shouldn't he be normal why shouldn't she like him. They talked for a while and it was going nowhere. Louie got nervous and by habit bit this inside of his cheek. Suddenly the conversation changed. It was like something swelled up and burst in Louie's body, but suddenly they were running out back and ripping their clothes off. A minute later the girl was screaming in his face that he had done something to her head and that he was trying to rape her.  Louie was distraught, he knew he was different but he didn't know he could do this.  He needed to learn how to control himself. He needed to get out. He packed up his things and left. Didn't even say goodbye.   He ended up in [[Deepshore]]. He started out doing odd jobs, but soon enough he was back in his old profession. That is until he met [[Gulliver]].
