### Iothia Moorland

The Iothia Moorland fills much of the central valley of [[Xhorhas]], a landscape of hilly grasslands and muddy fields that stretches from horizon to horizon, framed by soggy swamps and massive lakes. The Moorland is surprisingly fertile, supporting a robust ecosystem of game and beasts that call the valley home. The roving Dolorav and Koshtask clans claim the Moorlands as their hunting grounds, fighting back the deadly predators that stalk the marshes while also fighting intruders and each other.

The Dolorav clan is a fierce and disciplined warrior tribe, as well as one of the largest human societies in Eastern Wynandir. The Dolorav are descended from the surviving members of the Vukan, who were defeated by the Ki'Nau and their patron Uk'otoa in centuries past. They've now grown into a matriarchal society ruled by a champion called the Skyspear, who is chosen through feats of strength and mental acuity. Tribal warriors gain glory by surviving dangerous trials and rituals, and the majority of the Dolorav hunters and fighters are women.

All who belong to the clan take a blood oath called the Marking as a teenager (or on being accepted into the clan, if they joined later in life). This vow demands celibacy until an appointed mate is chosen by the Skyspear. The clan is a tight-knit community that understands the perilous nature of the land, and is ever vigilant to protect its own and rebuff the attempts of the dynasty to indoctrinate members into the Luxon's worship. On rare occasions, the Dolorav clan has been known to ally with the Koshtask clan against a common foe, and recently there have been talks of renewing such a truce to fight the [[Many Hosts of Igrathad]].

At present, the Dolorav clan is recovering from the massacre of their previous leadership by one of their own only a year ago.

The Koshtask clan is a powerful union of ornery orc marauders and abandoned wastefolk who were left behind when they chose not to follow the clans that joined the [[Kryn Dynasty]] and established Igrathad. As worshipers of Gruumsh, the Koshtask value efficiency in the kill and take what they want. They prefer fearmongering to diplomacy, and most interactions with the Koshtask end in violence, unless a greater enemy is present against whom they must ally. The current chosen of Gruumsh, a fire-scarred orc called Arakki, leads with cunning and foresight, seeking convenient alliances to ensure his clan's survival, fight off the Kryn missionaries that seek to convert his people, and eventually betray and destroy those foolish enough to trust them.

#### Iothia Moorland Adventures

These muck-laden fields of swamp and grass hide many lost secrets that have sunk beneath the mud—and deadly denizens intent on keeping those secrets hidden.

_**Lost Resting Place (Mid Level).**_ A disorganized clan of [cyclopes](https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/cyclops) wander the moorland, searching for the grave of their founding champion who died hundreds of years ago. They might parlay with the characters and are willing to trade fine, rare items for aid in seeking out their champion's resting place. When the grave is discovered, the cyclopes immediately begin a ceremony that raises the bones of their founder from the muck into a new existence as a giant. The characters can decide to halt the ritual, angering the cyclopes, or learn later that the clan is terrorizing the tribes of the moorland.