### Ruins of [[Draconia]]

At the bottom of the deep [[Dreemoth Ravine]] lie the crumbled ruins of the once-proud nation of [[Draconia]]. The floating islands of the city-state were the original home of dragonborn society within [[Wildemount]], though the ruling class installed a strict caste system and forced the tailless ravenite dragonborn to labor in the ravine below their magically elevated island city. When the city was assaulted by [[the Chroma Conclave]] two decades before, the islands were sundered and fell into the ravine, killing many of the inhabitants. However, this disaster gave the ravenites a chance to rebel against their cruel masters.

The plundered ruins of the former city are now abandoned heaps of rock and rubble, a dismal memorial to the ignominious end of a glorious, cruel civilization.

The ravenites did have allies among the ruling houses. Many Draconian citizens disagreed with the oppression of their brethren and fought for generations to overturn the laws that kept them enslaved. Others aided the ravenites in their emancipation after the fall of [[Draconia]]; those folk came out on top in the end, for they're considered honored members of the emerging ravenite society.

Those champions who were lost in the struggle are immortalized in statues left among the ruins, the most famous of whom is the hero Tiberius Stormwind of [[Draconia]]. Tiberius was one of the legendary heroes of Vox Machina, and he gave his life to defend ravenites from the ire of Vorugal, the white dragon of [[the Chroma Conclave]]. His statue and surrounding shrine are a place of pilgrimage for ravenite historians.

Those brave enough to delve into the ruins of [[Draconia]] can find treasures and a few ghosts of the destroyed city.

_**Former Glory (Low Level).**_ A cabal of disaffected draconblood dragonborn have been secretly assembling in the ruins of their former metropolis. They are guided by the whispers of a [death knight](https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/death-knight) who promises them the power to reassert control over the ravenites. They have begun learning necromancy and even making minor sacrifices in his name. The death knight, Pentrakath, is currently gathering artifacts elsewhere in [[Wildemount]], but will soon use his cultists and cult fanatics to carry out his twisted plans, if no one intervenes (see "[Dreemoth Ravine Adventures](https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/egtw/wildemount-gazetteer-wastes-of-[[xhorhas]]#DreemothRavineAdventures "[[Dreemoth Ravine]] Adventures")" earlier in this chapter).