### Xarzith Kitril

**Population:** 9,110 (93% dragonborn, 7% other races)

**Government:** A council of six oversees the city, with the Wardens of the Ravine keeping order under their guidance.

**Defense:** An army of Wardens of the Ravine are ever at the ready to defend the city. Many self-trained citizens can form a militia if need be.

**Commerce:** Trade is mostly limited to the city, making rare goods hard to find. Most basic equipment, arms, and services can be found here, as well as taverns and lodging.

**Organizations:** Small, rough sanctums of worship can be found within the city. Unions of artisans and merchants work together on a small scale.

Shortly after the fall of [[Draconia]], when the lords of the ruined city-state were deposed and scattered, the remaining ravenite dragonborn took the reins of their new freedom and began to develop a new dragonborn society in [[Wildemount]]. The ravenites have spent nearly two decades building a new city of hope for the dragonborn survivors within the cliffs of the [[Dreemoth Ravine]]. The fortified stone city of Xarzith Kitril continues to grow, and its borders are constantly being rebuilt to accommodate its exploding centers of residence and industry amid the ore-bearing mines and tall smoke pillars from ever-burning forges. The leaders of the city, members of the newly formed [[Scars of Scale and Tooth]], work to bring unity to the fractured, feuding ravenites.

When the city of [[Draconia]] fell, the surviving ravenites enjoyed a brief moment of freedom before the terrifying, ancient white dragon Vorugal the Frigid Doom claimed the ruins and the surrounding ravine as his new lair. The ravenites were freshly bound by fear under their new overlord, whose presence plunged the ravine into an endless winter. It wasn't until Vorugal was slain by the heroes of Vox Machina that the ravenites' chains were truly shattered. As the heavy ice melted away, the new city's construction began, and the city took the name Xarzith Kitril, Draconic for "ice born."

Xarzith Kitril represents a new dawn for the dragonborn people, and many of the citizens place personal pride in what their city stands for and what they believe it will eventually become. However, the council of new leadership, known as the [[Scars of Scale and Tooth]], continues to debate over the direction and development of the city, unable to agree on a clear vision of the future. Some wish to see the city rise in prominence and respect. Others wish to keep the city isolated. The populace grows restless and frustrated without united leadership.

With the support of the ravenites behind them, a council of six agreed to form the Scars and govern the city. Ruling by committee, however, sometimes leads to disagreements and slow progress. In particular, Vermosi Runek and [[Druvis Koothalok]] differ greatly on the perceived priorities of the city. Vermosi rules with religious passion and wants to remain in isolation to spite the worldly ways of the previous rulers of [[Draconia]], while Druvis seeks the benefits from forging alliances with neighboring powers. As this and similar arguments continue to escalate, governing the growing city is becoming challenging.

Local law enforcement is comprised entirely of a force of volunteer soldiers called the Wardens of the Ravine. The Wardens truly believe in the future of the city and the [[Scars of Scale and Tooth]], and they vigilantly maintain the peace and prevent criminal activity. Unfortunately, resources are relatively scarce, and the recent introduction of trade with the [[Menagerie Coast]] has brought an influx of coin into the previously barter-based society. As such, theft and racketeering are on the rise.

Constructed within the thinner, southern end of the [[Dreemoth Ravine]], this city of sturdy stone structures has expanded into the walls of the ravine on either side. Abodes are stacked along the cliffs and entwined with winding stairways and gondola platforms that glide across the open crevasse, elevated with recovered chunks of brumestone that once held the floating islands of [[Draconia]] aloft.

The central, base region of the city is referred to as the Roots, where the majority of commerce and industry meets the political core of the [[Scars of Scale and Tooth]]. The West Wall region is a tall, nearly vertical neighborhood of homes built into the rocky western cliff face of the ravine above the Dreemoth Quarry. The East Wall region looks similar to its western counterpart, though at a slightly less extreme grade, and houses three separate major mine shafts that are peppered with residential caves and abodes. Dozens of cords and chains stretch from ravine wall to ravine wall, allowing people and goods to move between them on the floating brumestone platforms.

All manner of adventures and challenges await within this recovering dragonborn society.

_**Best Left Alone (Mid Level).**_ One of the prominent mining companies within the city has recently uncovered a mysterious purple stone of unknown origin, about fifteen feet in diameter. Dozens of superstitious miners have fled this site, so the company hires the characters to investigate the stone and uncover its nature. When any of the stone's smooth, reflective surface takes damages, this buried relic of the Shadowfell begins to summon [shadowghasts](https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/[[shadowghast]]) and [gloomstalkers](https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/[[gloomstalker]]) (see [chapter 7](https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/egtw/[[wildemount]]-bestiary#Gloomstalker "chapter 7")) at an increasingly fast rate. The characters must discover a way to repair and reseal the stone, destroy it, or banish it from [[Exandria]] before the city is overwhelmed.