
 - [[Lore Dumps]] 
	 - [[Parents]] 
	 - You remember everything. You came from a world very different to [[Tharoline]]  . It was a world where everyone from great kings to the lowest of peasants possessed some degree of magic. Those with stronger powers ruled over those who didn’t. Eventually war broke out though, the world began tearing itself apart. Your parents, poor scholars, made a decision. They had unlocked the key to traveling between planes, and they were going to use that power to take you to a world where the three of you could live safely. Something went wrong though, and you ended up stranded deep in the [[Shadowfell]] , where they found that their magic no longer worked. You traveled through, eventually losing track of the days, as you searched desperately for a way out. They thought they were onto something when a strange creature known only as “The Beast'' took you. No matter how hard you think, you cannot remember what it did to you, or how long you were with, but when you awoke on the streets of [[Blackvale]] , you had a new found power.
 - 
 - [[Lore Dumps]] 
	 - [[Elven Sons]] 
	 - The worship of The Elven Sons goes back to the very first inhabitants of Tharoline. According to its legends, the elven god [[Crenos]]  who created Tharoline, gifted the world to his three sons after his lover left him. [[Ilios]]   the wise was given the west, [[Eradon]]  the strong was given the east, and Ruthos the wicked was given the center. The three brothers each created their own peoples to fill the land, and honor them with great deads. [[Ruthos]]  grew hungry for power though and sent his children out to destroy the others, so he could claim all of Tharoline as their own. Displeased by this, Eradon and [[Ilios]]  pleaded with their father to help, so using the last of his life force, [[Crenos]]  banished [[Ruthos]]  to the darkest depths of the world, where it is said he awaits the day he can return and take revenge on his brothers.
	 -     The [[Elven Sons]]   are primarily worshiped in Meijing where the old traditions are upheld, and the elves of [[Tharoline]]  can worship their gods without fear of persecution. To the non-elves who worship the elven sons, elves are viewed as demigods, direct decendants of the sons themselves, causing them to be treated with utmost respects in the places where the religion is still practiced.
 - #Location

 - 
 - [[Lore Dumps]] 
	 - [[Amarei]]  's vision
	 - Your head is suddenly filled with memories, some that you think aren’t even yours. You see [[Tharoline]]   as it was before the arrival of man. A pristine wilderness made splendid by the elven god [[Crenos]]   for his lover, a mortal elven woman named [[Thrarolinia]]  . This part of the story is known by all though, as it is a legend past down from generation to generation of elves. What the story never mentions though, is that two had a child together. That child, was you [[Amarei]]  . You were born, a demigod, destined to inherit part of the world, along with your two brothers, the gods [[Ilios]]   the wise and [[Eradon]]   the strong. But you also had a third brother, [[Ruthos]]  , who was wicked to his very core, and who had been disinherited by your father for bringing evil to the world. Jealous, he unleashed horrors onto the world, with the sole purpose of destroying you. In order to keep you safe, Crenos stripped away your powers, and hid you away so that Ruthos could never find you, and with his remaining power, he imprisoned Ruthos deep in the [[Feywild]]  . You slumbered for thousands of years, until one day a mysterious figure awakened you, and brought you to the village that you would one day call home, and gave you the ones you now know as your parents, to raise as their own. You still don’t know who the mysterious figure that awoke you was, or why they brought you there. What you do know is that standing before you is Ruthos.
 - 
 - [[Teroth]]   is the demon king of [[Tharoline]]  . Legend has it that he was once an elven god of war, who had his body ripped apart by [[Crenos]]   as punishment for seducing his lover and cast into the furthest pits of a plane known as [[Jacaris]]   which is said to be home to rivers of fire, forests made of glass, and unimaginable monsters. Through sheer strength of will, [[Teroth]]   stitched his body back together and unleashed the inhabitants of [[Jacaris]]  , the orcs and goblins, onto [[Tharoline]]   to wreak havoc on the land as a form of revenge on [[Ceros]]  .
	 -     Today [[Teroth]]   is worshiped by Orcs and Goblins in [[Tharoline]]   as they view him as their creator. As such his worship is primarily contained to [[Badlands]]  , though he does have a small group of worshipers in [[Ezemor]]   and [[Meijing]]  . These worshipers are often the members of secret cults, meeting in the dead of night to practice dark rituals and plan the second coming of the monster armies to [[Tharoline]]  .