### Lushgut Forest

Choking the valley floor between the Stonecage Cliffs and the entire northwest region of the Menagerie Coast, the Lushgut Forest is a monument to the fury and anger of Melora. It is said that a terrible battle between Melora and Zehir took place during the Calamity, when the Cloaked Serpent plotted an ambush by a shrine to the Wild Mother. This ambush poisoned and slaughtered an innumerable number of Melora's chosen. In her anguish and rage, Melora's scream shook the heavens and birthed a twisting, thorny woodland that crushed and consumed the serpentfolk of Zehir, sending the dark god fleeing the valley. The Lushgut Forest remains a physical manifestation of the Wild Mother's vengeful nature; her wrath is embodied in the tall, curling boughs that still ooze toxins from the poison left in Zehir's wake. The poisonous denizens of the labyrinthine wilderness of shadow and fumes are rumored to protect something that lingers near its center, and scholars still debate if these slithering sentinels are born from the will of Melora or the spite of Zehir.

The deep woods of the Lushgut Forest are also home to a civilization of goblins and bugbears known as the Vinewreathed Enclave. This druidic order is led by bugbears who have used their natural magic to break the control which Bane, the Strife Emperor, holds over their westward goblin kin. They are devotees of the Wild Mother, whom they know as _an-Melzidanye_.

Whether traveling from Tal'Dorei or wandering far north of the Menagerie Coast, adventuring parties can find unique challenges within these deep woods.

_**Venomous Request (Low Level).**_ Wandering deep into the shady heart of the forest, the characters discover a hidden society of yuan-ti who worship the Wild Mother instead of Zehir. However, they bear a cancerous curse that cuts their lives short, which they believe stems from the poisonous sunken temple they choose to guard in Melora's name, slaying the twisted creatures that spill from its corruption. The village leader asks the characters for aid in venturing deep into the deadly temple to seek the source of these terrors, and perhaps their own curse, in hopes of destroying it once and for all.