### Pallid Grove

Hidden near the northern heart of the [[Cyrios Mountains]], the valley known as the Pallid Grove is cut off from the rest of [[Wildemount]] by deadly peaks. Once a beautiful, untouched woodland atop a mountain plateau, the grove was home to reclusive [[elves]] who worshiped [[Sehanine]], protected by the illusory magics of their moon priests.

During [[the Calamity]], [[Torog]] and his loathsome minions pierced the [[elves]]' obfuscating barriers and burrowed beneath the grove, causing the plateau to sink into a shadowed valley. His servants lapped at the roots of the trees from below, sucking the life and color from them, while many of the denizens of the wood were dragged beneath the earth to be tortured in the bladed halls of the Crawling King. Now, nearly a millennium later, the bleached, broken, petrified forest remains an eerie specter of the natural world, and its cursed history keeps travelers at bay.

It was thought the [[elves]] of the wood had been annihilated during the destruction of what is now known as the Pallid Grove, but a number of them survived among the sunken roots. Living in fear of the Crawling King's cruelty and hiding from the destruction of [[the Calamity]], these enduring elven clans kept to the shadows of the valley and persisted through the ages. The blessings of the Moon Weaver shielded them from harm, and over time, these blessings mingled with their natural adaption to the blighted forest and gave rise to a new subrace of elves known as the pallid elves. Only in recent years have these timid survivors begun to step out into [[Exandria]], curious and confused about the new world that has developed without them.