### [[Aeor]] Crash Site

While pieces of [[Aeor]] were thrown all over [[Eiselcross]] and the Frigid Depths, the city's main crash initially created a three-mile-diameter crater in the center of Foren. In the centuries since, ice covered the crater. Ruins poke through the frosty surface, creating tunnels, pits, and chasms. The buried ruins are filled with dangerous, wonderful creations and pockets of people frozen in time.

Most of [[Aeor]]'s streets, buildings, and people were smashed to pieces when the city collided with Foren. Amid the ruins are magic fields of translucent blue force surrounding moments frozen in time. Many of these bubbles hold diverse crowds of humanoids huddled in the street, their bodies, clothes, belongings, and the ground itself unharmed by the crash. Others contain families holding hands as they brace for impact around dining tables, mages waving wands in the air around laboratory benches, soldiers with glowing swords raised to the sky, siege crews climbing atop weapons meant to fire massive projectiles, and more. Each magic field is a 10-foot-radius sphere, and nothing within appears damaged or moved by the crash.

While these preserved scenes are sometimes useful for gathering information, the items and people within are the real prize. Totally intact [[Aeor|Aeorian]] technology is a rare find, but having even one of [[Aeor]]'s inventors or mages to demonstrate, repair, and rebuild their creations is a reward beyond any of the other treasures the ruins hold. However, all attempts to dispel, break, or otherwise remove the impenetrable magic barriers have failed. The people within appear frozen in time, but no evidence suggests this stasis would change if the barriers dropped, or that the change would be for the better. Some say the barriers dropping could cause the creatures within to age rapidly, turn to dust, or go mad. Despite these warnings, explorers search [[Aeor]]'s ruins for an item or spell that can break these bubbles.

_**Breaking the Bubbles.**_ If and how the stasis bubbles of [[Aeor]] can be broken is up to you, but here are a few suggestions for solutions:

-   An encoded ritual hidden in the bowels of [[Aeor]]'s crash site can break the bubbles. It requires one powdered unicorn horn and one dried flumph tentacle per bubble.
-   The crystal in [[Allowak's Sanctuary]] powers the stasis bubbles. If it is destroyed, the stasis bubbles break.
-   In their exalted state, the [[Arms of the Betrayers]] (see [chapter 6](https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/egtw/[[wildemount]]-treasures#ArmsoftheBetrayers "chapter 6")) are powerful enough to break the bubbles with an attack.

#### Arms and Armor

[[Aeor|Aeorian]] technology was created to battle the gods and their servants. Explorers seek weapons and armor, most of which is crafted to pierce divine defenses and guard against deific assaults. Weapons as small as daggers and as large as cannons were crafted in [[Aeor]]. Although much was destroyed in the crash, there are still items in the rubble (see [chapter 6](https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/egtw/[[wildemount]]-treasures "chapter 6")). The pieces are valuable, and the blueprints for creating such powerful items would be priceless, though none have been found so far.

A large facility in the city developed diseases meant to weaken and kill the gods and their servants. [[Aeor]]'s mages tested the diseases on beasts and prisoners, creating horrific monsters, some of which still stalk the ruins.

_**Frigid Woe.**_ Frigid woe is a special disease developed by [[Aeor]]'s mages that cannot be cured by conventional treatment or magic. The only way a creature infected with the disease can be cured is by finding and drinking the manufactured antidote, a milky liquid stored in gold vials found in [[Eiselcross]]'s ruins. This disease was created to slow down the forces of the gods and get around the healing power of their clerics and angels.

The disease is transmitted by breathing in blue spores that [[Aeor]]'s mages created long ago. When a creature comes into contact with these spores, it must succeed on a DC 11 Constitution saving throw or become infected with frigid woe. It takes 1d4 days for the symptoms to manifest in an infected creature. These symptoms include fatigue, chills, and visible blue veins that appear on the creature's body. The infected creature's speed is reduced by 5 feet as long as it remains infected. Every 10 days after symptoms appear, an infected creature must succeed on a DC 11 Constitution saving throw, or its speed is reduced by another 5 feet. If a creature's speed is reduced to 0 as a result of this disease, the creature dies and its body turns into a statue made of ice.

A creature can drink the antidote as an action, ending all symptoms and effects of the disease instantly.

[[Aeor]]'s people didn't just develop weapons that could kill the gods; they created soldiers. Strange experiments turned captive beasts, prisoners, and volunteers into hulking dreadnoughts called [[Aeorian hunters]] (described in [chapter 7](https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/egtw/[[wildemount]]-bestiary#AeorianHunters "chapter 7")). Those that survived the crash still stalk the ruins, driven mad by isolation and unsated bloodlust.

A mile west of the crater that defines the crash site is a rocky hill that thaws any snow or ice that rests atop it. The mouth of a cavern can be found on the hill's northern side, which leads to a 60-foot-wide, domed chamber. In the center of this cave stands a fifteen-foot-tall obelisk made of dark, reflective metal that resembles smoothed obsidian. The stone quietly hums with an aura of abjuration from some mysterious enchantment. Travelers that complete a long rest within proximity of the stone are visited with terrible dreams of strange, alien places and visions difficult to understand.

The main reason for characters to explore [[Aeor]]'s crash site is to uncover [[Aeor|Aeorian]] [[magic items]] and other treasures, but any time spent in the region is sure to bring excitement and danger.

_**Wild Child (Mid Level).**_ An eight-year-old wildfolk child named Essora was playing with others near the crash site when a friend dared her to stand on the ice over the ruins. Essora fell through the ice and has not come out of the city's remains. None of the wildfolk are willing to risk themselves in the ruins to save Essora. The child's grandmother, Leriea, begs the characters to bring Essora home. While looking for a way out of the ruins, Essora found the enhancement workshop and drank a potion that gave her frigid woe. There is a vial of antidote deeper in the ruin.

_**Weapons of War (High Level).**_ The characters are hired by a representative of the [[Dwendalian Empire]], the [[Kryn Dynasty]], [[the Myriad]], or some other faction to travel to the [[Aeor]] Crash Site and search for gold vials containing frigid woe, a milky liquid. A previous expedition found one such vial, and the characters' benefactors want more of it. The party's benefactor wants to keep the vials from falling into the wrong hands or wants to sell them to the highest bidder. To reach a hidden cache of vials in the depths of the crash site, the characters must content with [[Aeorian hunters]] (see [chapter 7](https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/egtw/[[wildemount]]-bestiary#AeorianHunters "chapter 7")) and a rival search party of high-level adventurers.