### River Inferno

This odd, mile-wide river of lava flows south-to-north across the length of [[Foren]]. The River Inferno disappears at both its ends into the sea, springing up seemingly from nowhere. Most scholars believe that the river was created by the crash of [[Aeor]], though this theory has yet to be confirmed. It is clear that the river has ties to the Elemental Plane of Fire, for fire elementals, magma mephits, and salamanders can be occasionally found along its banks.

The River Inferno's lava has the destructive power one expects, though there is an exception: ice and snow that fall into the lava remain intact. Bold explorers traveling north sometimes ride the river's floating icebergs to get to their destinations more quickly. The river flows at an impressive rate of seven miles per hour.

The river itself is best avoided, but characters can have interesting encounters if they follow it.

_**Haughty Efreet (High Level).**_ A pair of [efreet](https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/efreeti) recently emerged from the River Inferno, and the characters are the first intelligent creatures they find. Using [tongues](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/tongues) spells, the efreet demand that the characters tell them everything they know about this strange land, then demand that the characters point them in the direction of the nearest settlement. The efreet plan to enslave the settlement's inhabitants and put them to work building an obsidian tower on the shore of the River Inferno, where the efreet can stay whenever they deign to visit this dismally cold corner of the multiverse.